Side Input Prompt for Duet AI (#30121)
apache/beam: learning/prompts/documentation-lookup/29_advanced_side_inputs.md

Prompt:
What are Side inputs in Apache Beam?
Response:

> [Side input](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#side-inputs) is an additional input to a [ParDo transform](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#pardo) that is not part of the main input `PCollection`. ParDo can access side inputs each time that your `DoFn` processes an element in the input `PCollection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Apache Beam, side inputs are additional inputs that can be provided to a [‘ParDo’ transform](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#pardo), in addition to the main input  [`PCollection`](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/basics/#pcollection). These side inputs can be used by the ParDo transform's DoFn to access and read additional data during the processing of each element in the main input ‘PCollection’.
```

Side inputs are useful in scenarios where you need to include additional non hard-coded data at runtime. For example, you might want to include a configuration data or a lookup table in your pipeline. Such data can also depend on a different branch of your pipeline.

> In Python SDK side inputs are available as extra arguments to the `DoFn`'s `process` method or `Map`/`FlatMap` callable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Apache Beam Python SDK, you can provide side inputs as extra arguments in the `DoFn`'s `process` method or the `Map`/`FlatMap` transforms. The Python SDK supports optional, positional, and keyword arguments.
```

```python
class MyDoFn(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, side_input):
    ...
```

In Java SDK side inputs are passed to your `ParDo` transform by invoking `.withSideInputs`. Inside your `DoFn`, access the side input by using the method `DoFn.ProcessContext.sideInput`.

```java
PCollection<Integer> input = ...;
PCollectionView<Integer> sideInput = ...;
PCollection<Integer> output =
    input.apply(ParDo.of(new DoFn<Integer, Integer>() {
      @ProcessElement
      public void processElement(ProcessContext c) {
        Integer sideInputValue = c.sideInput(sideInput);
        ...
      }
    }).withSideInputs(sideInput));
```

> Side inputs can also be used for [processing windowed data](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/programming-guide/#side-inputs-windowing). Apache Beam uses the windows for the main input `PCollection` to lookup appropriate window for the side input element. Apache Beam projects the main input window to the side input's window set. Main and side inputs might have identical or different windowing strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Side inputs can also be used to process windowed data. Apache Beam uses the windows for the main input elements to look up the appropriate windows for the side input elements. Apache Beam projects the main input’s window to the side input's window set and uses the side input from the resulting window. Main and side inputs might have identical or different windowing strategies.
```
